[Docs] Rewrite How-to manage units guide and add trust to deploy (#177)
canonical/kafka-k8s-operator: docs/how-to/h-manage-units.md

# How to manage units

For general Juju unit management process, see the [Juju documentation](https://juju.is/docs/juju/manage-units).

## Scale the cluster

> Scaling the cluster does not automatically rebalance existing topics and partitions. Rebalancing must be performed manually—before scaling in or after scaling out.

Reviewer: **question** should this be part of the note below? Feels strange to start the Scale section by a sentence of what scaling doesn't do.

Reviewer 2: We should aim to minimise the caution block size for users to actually attentively read it.
Let's put this text in a separate note block, because you're right, it's not directly guiding you to how to scale.

Reviewer 2: I've updated it in Discourse, you can see how it looks like on [Canonical.com](https://canonical.com/data/docs/kafka/k8s/h-manage-units#p-25111-scaling).

[note type="caution"]
Reassign partitions **before** scaling in to ensure that decommissioned units do not hold any data. Failing to do so may lead to data loss.
[/note]

> To scale Charmed Apache Kafka application, use `juju scale-application` command with the name of the app and the required number of units:

Reviewer 3: **todo:** `To scale the Charmed Apache Kafka application, use the `juju scale-application` with the name of the app and the desired number of units:`

```shell
juju scale-application kafka-k8s <units>
```

See the `scale-application` [command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/scale-application/index.html).

> Make sure to reassign partitions and topics to use newly added units for existing topics and partitions. See below for guidance.

Reviewer 3: ``todo:** `Make sure to reassign any existing partitions and topics to the newly added units. See below for guidance`

### Partition reassignment

> When brokers are added or removed, Apache Kafka cluster does not *automatically* rebalance existing topics and partitions.

Reviewer 3: **todo:** `..., Apache Kafka does not automatically rebalance existing partitions and topics across the new set of brokers.`

# How to manage units

For general Juju unit management process, see the [Juju documentation](https://juju.is/docs/juju/manage-units).

## Scale the cluster

Scaling the cluster (adding or removing units) does not lead automatically to rebalancing existing topics and partitions. The rebalancing needs to be done manually, before removing units or after adding them.

### Add units

> To increase the number of Apache Kafka brokers, add more units to the Charmed Apache Kafka K8s application:

Reviewer 3: **todo:** Language should change here to talk about `scaling-in` and `scaling-out`. Makes much more sense on K8s for StatefulSets

```shell

> juju add-unit kafka-k8s -n <num_brokers_to_add>

Reviewer 3: **todo:** This should be `scale-application`

Reviewer 2: Yes, you're absolutely right, sorry for not noticing it by myself. I've fixed it in https://github.com/canonical/kafka-k8s-operator/pull/177/commits/38151d1c95adbf0832c2f1daa3e79e28e8e86cbc

```

See the `juju add-unit` [command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/add-unit/).

Make sure to reassign partitions and topics to use newly added units for existing topics and partitions. See below for guidance.

### Remove units

[note type="caution"]
Reassign partitions **before** scaling down to ensure that decommissioned units do not hold any data. Failing to do so may lead to data loss.
[/note]

> To decrease the number of Apache Kafka brokers, remove some existing units from the Charmed Apache Kafka K8s application:

Reviewer 3: **todo:** Language should change here to talk about `scaling-in` and `scaling-out`. Makes much more sense on K8s for StatefulSets

```shell

> juju remove-unit kafka-k8s/1 kafka-k8s/2

Reviewer 3: **todo:** This should be `scale-application`

```

> See the `juju remove-unit` [command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/remove-unit/).

Reviewer 3: **todo:** `scale-application`

### Partition reassignment

> When units are added or removed, the Apache Kafka cluster does not *automatically* rebalance existing topics and partitions.

Reviewer 3: **todo:** Language should use the terminology `scale`, not `add`/`remove` when referring to units. In this case, we're talking about brokers, so change to say:
```
When brokers are added or removed from the cluster...
```

Without reassignment or rebalancing:

> * New storage and new brokers will be used only for newer topics and partitions. 

Reviewer 3: **todo:** This language is misleading. Please maintain existing phrasing:
```
New storages and new brokers will be used only when new topics and new partitions are created. 
```

> * Removing a unit can lead to data from its storage being lost.

Reviewer 3: **todo:** `Removing a broker can result in permanent data loss if the partitions are not replicated on another broker`

BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=$(juju run kafka-k8s/leader get-admin-credentials | grep "bootstrap.servers" | cut -d "=" -f 2)
```

Admin client authentication information is stored in the `/etc/kafka/client.properties` file that is present on every Apache Kafka container. 
The content of the file can be accessed using `juju ssh` command:

```
juju ssh --container kafka kafka-k8s/leader 'cat /etc/kafka/client.properties'
```

> where the `--container kafka` is to select the Apache Kafka workload container of the unit. By default, the charm operator container is opened.

Reviewer 3: **todo:**
```suggestion
where the `--container kafka` argument selects the Apache Kafka workload container of the unit. By default, the `charm` operator container is opened
```

Reviewer 2: Why do you want the "charm" to be a literal? Is it the exact name of the container? If so, can we drop the "operator" word?
Why do you want to drop the period at the end of the sentence?

Reviewer 3: Period may have been a mistake.
And yes, `'charm' container` is the way to go

This file can be provided to the Apache Kafka bin commands via the `--command-config`
argument. Note that `client.properties` may also refer to other files (e.g. truststore and keystore for TLS-enabled connections). 
Those files also need to be accessible and correctly specified. 

Commands can be run within an Apache Kafka broker, since both the authentication 
file (along with the truststore if needed) and the Charmed Apache Kafka binaries are 
already present. 

#### Listing topics example

> For instance, to list the current topics on the Apache Kafka cluster, run:

Reviewer: Does this sound better? It jumped out at me to start with that wording
```suggestion
To list the current topics on the Apache Kafka cluster, run:
```

Reviewer 2: You're right, the command looks like it's useful in the most general case, not just in some specific example. Let's also update this section's heading, to make it all a bit more generic.
